Swift Core ML tools for LLMs (#1365)
huggingface/blog: swift-coreml-llm.md

---
title: "Swift Tools for On-Device LLM Inference with Core ML"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/swift-coreml-llm/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: pcuenq
---

# Swift Tools for On-Device LLM Inference with Core ML

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

> I have a lot of respect for iOS / mac developers. We started writing apps for iPhones in 2007, when not even APIs or documentation existed, and collectively managed to create top-notch applications that run on small devices with unfamiliar decisions in the constraint space. The combination of power, screen real-estate, UI idioms, network access, persistence, latency was different to what we were used to before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I have a lot of respect for iOS/Mac developers. We started writing apps for iPhones in 2007, when not even APIs or documentation existed, and collectively managed to create top-notch applications that ran on small devices with unfamiliar decisions in the constraint space. The combination of power, screen real estate, UI idioms, network access, persistence, and latency was different to what we were used to before.
```

> I believe that ML is a new way to build software, and I know that many developers want to incorporate AI features in their apps. The ML ecosystem has matured a lot, and there are thousands of models that solve a wide variety of problems. Moreover, LLMs have recently emerged as almost general-purpose tools themselves – they can be tweaked or bent to adapt to new domains, as long as we can model our task to work on text or text-like data. We are witness of a defining moment in compute history where LLMs are going out of research labs and becoming compute tools for everybody.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I believe that ML is a new way to build software, and I know that many developers want to incorporate AI features in their apps. The ML ecosystem has matured a lot, and there are thousands of models that solve a wide variety of problems. Moreover, LLMs have recently emerged as almost general-purpose tools themselves – they can be tweaked or bent to adapt to new domains, as long as we can model our task to work on text or text-like data. We are witnessing a defining moment in computing history, where LLMs are going out of research labs and becoming compute tools for everybody.
```

Using a model such as an LLM in an app involves several tasks, and many people are facing and solving them alone. We have been exploring this space, and we'd love to continue working on it with the community. We aim to create a set of tools and building blocks that developers can use to build faster.

Today, we are publishing this guide to go through the steps required to run a model such as Llama 2 on your Mac, and we are releasing alpha libraries and tools to support developers in the journey. We are calling all Swift developers interested in ML – is that _all_ Swift developers? – to contribute with PRs, bug reports, or opinions to make this better together.

Let's go.

TODO: screenshot / video.

## Tasks Overview

> When I publish tweets showing Falcon or Llama 2 running on my Mac, I get many questions from other developers asking how to convert those models to Core ML, because they want to use them in their apps as well. Conversion is a crucial step, but it's just the first piece of the puzzle. The real reason I write those apps is to face the same problems any other developer would, and identify areas where we can help. This is an outline of the rest of the post, where we cover some of the tasks involved and explain where (and where not) we have tools to help.

Reviewer: Adding links to these tweets:

```suggestion
When I publish tweets showing [Falcon](https://twitter.com/pcuenq/status/1664605575882366980) or [Llama 2](https://twitter.com/pcuenq/status/1681404748904431616) running on my Mac, I get many questions from other developers asking how to convert those models to Core ML, because they want to use them in their apps as well. Conversion is a crucial step, but it's just the first piece of the puzzle. The real reason I write those apps is to face the same problems that any other developer would, and identify areas where we can help. This is an outline of the rest of the post, where we cover some of the tasks involved and explain where (and where not) we have tools to help.
```

- [Conversion to Core ML](#conversion-to-core-ml). We'll use Llama 2 as a real-life example.

> - [Optimization](#optimization) techniques to make your model (and app) run fast and consume as little memory as possible. This is an area that permeates across the project, as there's no silver-bullet solution you can apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Optimization](#optimization) techniques to make your model (and app) run fast and consume as little memory as possible. This is an area that permeates across the project and there's no silver-bullet solution you can apply.
```

- [`swift-transformers`](#swift-transformers), our new library to help with some common tasks.

>     - [Tokenizers](#tokenizers). Tokenization is the way to convert text input to the actual set of numbers that are processed by the model (and back to text from the generated predictions). This is a lot more involved than it looks, as there are many different options and strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Tokenizers](#tokenizers). Tokenization is the way to convert text input to the actual set of numbers that are processed by the model (and back to text from the generated predictions). This is a lot more involved than it sounds, as there are many different options and strategies.
```

>     - [Model and Hub wrappers](#model-and-hub-wrappers). If we want to support the vast variety of models in the Hub, we can't afford to hardcode model settings. We created a simple `LanguageModel` abstraction and some utilities to download model and tokenizer configuration files from the Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Model and Hub wrappers](#model-and-hub-wrappers). If we want to support the vast variety of models on the Hub, we can't afford to hardcode model settings. To solve this, we created a simple `LanguageModel` abstraction and various utilities to download model and tokenizer configuration files from the Hub.
```

>     - [Generation Algorithms](#generation-algorithms). Language models are trained to predict a probability distribution of the next token that may appear after a sequence of text. To generate text output, we need to call the model multiple times and collect a token at a time. There are many ways to decide what's the next best token to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Generation Algorithms](#generation-algorithms). Language models are trained to predict a probability distribution for the next token that may appear after a sequence of text. To generate text output, we need to call the model multiple times and sample a token at each step. There are many ways to decide which token we should choose next.
```

Author: 👍 Didn't want to use "sample" just yet, will look for an alternative :)

    - [Supported Models](#supported-models). Not all model families are supported (yet).
- [`swift-chat`](#swift-chat). This is a small app that simply shows how to use `swift-transformers` in a project.
- [Missing Parts](#missing-parts). Some stuff that's important but not yet available, as directions for future work.
- [Resources](#resources). Links to all the projects and tools.

## Conversion to Core ML

> To see what it looks like to convert a model in real-life, we'll take a look at converting the recently released Llama 2. The process can be sometimes convoluted, but we offer a couple of tools to help. They won't always work, as new models are being introduced all the time and we need to do adjustments and modifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see what it looks like to convert a model in real life, we'll take a look at converting the recently-released Llama 2 model. The process can sometimes be convoluted, but we offer a couple of tools to help. They won't always work, as new models are being introduced all the time and we need to do adjustments and modifications.
```

Our recommended approach is:

1. Use the [`transformers-to-coreml`](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface-projects/transformers-to-coreml) conversion space.

TODO: change the org, as per Julien's email thread.
TODO: screenshot.

> This is an automated tool built on top of `exporters` (see below) that either works for your model, or doesn't. It requires no coding at all: you write the Hub model identifier, then select the task you're planning to use the model for, and apply. If conversion succeeds, you can push the converted Core ML weights to the Hub, and you are done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an automated tool built on top of `exporters` (see below) that either works for your model, or doesn't. It requires no coding at all: you enter the Hub model identifier, select the task you're planning to use the model for, and click apply. If conversion succeeds, you can push the converted Core ML weights to the Hub, and you are done!
```

2. Use [`exporters`](https://github.com/huggingface/exporters), a Python conversion package built on top of Apple's `coremltools` (see below).

> It gives you a lot more options to configure the conversion task. In addition, it lets you create your own [conversion configuration class](https://github.com/huggingface/exporters#overriding-default-choices-in-the-configuration-object), which you may use for additional control, or to work around conversion issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This library gives you a lot more options to configure the conversion task. In addition, it lets you create your own [conversion configuration class](https://github.com/huggingface/exporters#overriding-default-choices-in-the-configuration-object), which you may use for additional control, or to work around conversion issues.
```

3. Use [`coremltools`](https://github.com/apple/coremltools), Apple's conversion package.

This is the lowest-level approach and therefore provides maximum control. It can still fail for some models (especially new ones), but you always have the option to dive inside the source code and try to figure out why.

The good news about Llama 2 is that we did the legwork and it now works using any of these methods. The bad news is that it _failed to convert_ when it was released, and we had to do some fixing to support it. I think it's useful to take a brief look at what happened so you get a taste of what to do when things go wrong.

> ### Converting Llama 2 the hard way

Author: This might be a bit too much, but people are interested. We could move it to a "Supplementary Material" appendix, or eventually create a dedicated guide somewhere.

Reviewer: Although it's interesting, I think it's better to move to supplementary materials.

[This is a bit long, but people are interested. We could move it to a "Supplementary Material" appendix, or create another blog post later]

You can safely ignore this section unless you've experienced Core ML conversion issues and are ready to fight :)

In my experience, there are two frequent reasons why PyTorch models fail to convert to Core ML using `coremltools`:

- Unsupported PyTorch operations or operation variants

> PyTorch has _a lot_ of operations, and all of them have to be mapped to an intermediate representation ([MIL](https://apple.github.io/coremltools/source/coremltools.converters.mil.mil.ops.defs.html), for _Model Intermediate Language_), which in turn is converted to native Core ML instructions. The set of PyTorch operations is not static, so new ones have to be added to `coremltools` too. In addition, some operations are really complex and can work on exotic combinations of their arguments. An example of a recently added, very complex op, was _scaled dot-product attention_, introduced in PyTorch 2. An example of a partially supported op is `einsum`: not all possible equations are translated to MIL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PyTorch has _a lot_ of operations, and all of them have to be mapped to an intermediate representation ([MIL](https://apple.github.io/coremltools/source/coremltools.converters.mil.mil.ops.defs.html), for _Model Intermediate Language_), which in turn is converted to native Core ML instructions. The set of PyTorch operations is not static, so new ones have to be added to `coremltools` too. In addition, some operations are really complex and can work on exotic combinations of their arguments. An example of a recently-added, very complex op, was _scaled dot-product attention_, introduced in PyTorch 2. An example of a partially supported op is `einsum`: not all possible equations are translated to MIL.
```

- Edge cases and type mismatches

> Even for supported PyTorch operations, it's very hard to ensure that the translation process works on all possible inputs across all the different input types. Keep in mind that a single PyTorch op can have multiple backend implementations for different devices (cpu, CUDA), input types (integer, float), or precision (float16, float32). The product of all combinations is staggering, and some times the way a model uses PyTorch code triggers a translation path that may have not been considered or tested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even for supported PyTorch operations, it's very difficult to ensure that the translation process works on all possible inputs across all the different input types. Keep in mind that a single PyTorch op can have multiple backend implementations for different devices (cpu, CUDA), input types (integer, float), or precision (float16, float32). The product of all combinations is staggering, and some times the way a model uses PyTorch code triggers a translation path that may have not been considered or tested.
```

Fortunately, `coremltools` coverage for new operations is good and the team reacts very fast.

### Important lessons learned

I've followed the process above for some recent models (Llama 2, Falcon, StarCoder), and I've applied what I learned to both `exporters` and the `transformers-to-coreml` space. This is a summary of some takeaways:

- If you have to use `coremltools`, use the latest version: `7.0b1`. Despite technically being a beta, I've been using it for weeks and it's really good: stable, includes a lot of fixes, supports PyTorch 2, and has new features like advanced quantization tools.
- `exporters` no longer applies a softmax to outputs when converting text generation tasks. We realized this was necessary for some generation algorithms.

> - `exporters` now defaults to using fixed sequence lengths for text models. Core ML has a way to specify "flexible shapes", such that your input sequence may have any length between 1 and, say, 4096 characters. We discovered that flexible inputs only run on CPU, but not on GPU or the Neural Engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `exporters` now defaults to using fixed sequence lengths for text models. Core ML has a way to specify "flexible shapes", such that your input sequence may have any length between 1 and, say, 4096 tokens. We discovered that flexible inputs only run on CPU, but not on GPU or the Neural Engine.
```

I assume you meant "tokens"?

There are a few general tokenization algorithms, and a lot of different normalization and pre-processing steps that are crucial to using the model effectively. The transformers library made the decision to abstract all those operations in the same library (`tokenizers`), and represent the decisions as configuration files that are stored in the Hub alongside the model. For example, this is an excerpt from the configuration of the Llama 2 tokenizer that describes _just the normalization step_:

```
  "normalizer": {
    "type": "Sequence",
    "normalizers": [
      {
        "type": "Prepend",
        "prepend": "▁"
      },
      {
        "type": "Replace",
        "pattern": {
          "String": " "
        },
        "content": "▁"
      }
    ]
  },
```

It reads like this: normalization is a sequence of operations applied in order. First, we `Prepend` character `_` to the input string. Then we replace all spaces with `_`. There's a huge list of potential operations, they can be applied to regular expression matches, and they have to be performed in a very specific order. The code in the `tokenizers` library takes care of all these details for all the models in the Hub.

> In contrast, projects that use language models in other domains, such as Swift apps, usually resort to hardcoding these decisions as part of the app's source code. This is fine for a couple of models, but then it's hard to replace a model with a different one, and it's easy to make mistakes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast, projects that use language models in other domains, such as Swift apps, usually resort to hardcoding these decisions as part of the app's source code. This is fine for a couple of models, but then it's difficult to replace a model with a different one, and it's easy to make mistakes.
```

- Edge cases and type mismatches

Even for supported PyTorch operations, it's very difficult to ensure that the translation process works on all possible inputs across all the different input types. Keep in mind that a single PyTorch op can have multiple backend implementations for different devices (cpu, CUDA), input types (integer, float), or precision (float16, float32). The product of all combinations is staggering, and some times the way a model uses PyTorch code triggers a translation path that may have not been considered or tested.

This is what happened when I first tried to convert Llama 2 using `coremltools`:

> [TODO: Screenshot]

Author: To be fixed.

---
title: "Swift Tools for On-Device LLM Inference with Core ML"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/swift-coreml-llm/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: pcuenq
---

> # Swift Tools for On-Device LLM Inference with Core ML

Author: Title feedback wanted, maybe mention `swift-transformers` too.

Reviewer 2: I think more people know what on-device is vs Core ML

Author: Yes, but some of the on-device people may be used to C code instead 😅

> # Swift Tools for On-Device LLM Inference with Core ML

Reviewer 2: Many people might not know what Core ML is, so I think having a brief (1-2 sentences) description of what it is would be super helpful. I would probably avoid having it in the title

> # Swift Tools for On-Device LLM Inference with Core ML

Reviewer 3: What about `On-Device LLMs Powered by Swift Tools with Core ML`? I think it would be nice to have the emphasis on LLMs first given the hype :)

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

> I have a lot of respect for iOS/Mac developers. As part of this community, I started writing apps for iPhones in 2007, when not even APIs or documentation existed, and we collectively managed to create top-notch applications that ran on small devices with unfamiliar decisions in the constraint space. The combination of power, screen real estate, UI idioms, network access, persistence, and latency was different to what we were used to before.

Reviewer 3: The second sentence could be refactored for readability I think

> I have a lot of respect for iOS/Mac developers. As part of this community, I started writing apps for iPhones in 2007, when not even APIs or documentation existed, and we collectively managed to create top-notch applications that ran on small devices with unfamiliar decisions in the constraint space. The combination of power, screen real estate, UI idioms, network access, persistence, and latency was different to what we were used to before.

Author: The iOS developer community, back in the day. I'll see how I can rephrase.

> I believe that ML is a new way to build software, and I know that many developers want to incorporate AI features in their apps. The ML ecosystem has matured a lot, and there are thousands of models that solve a wide variety of problems. Moreover, LLMs have recently emerged as almost general-purpose tools themselves – they can be tweaked or bent to adapt to new domains, as long as we can model our task to work on text or text-like data. We are witnessing a defining moment in computing history, where LLMs are going out of research labs and becoming compute tools for everybody.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
I believe that ML is a new way to build software, and many developers want to incorporate AI features in their apps. The ML ecosystem has matured a lot, and there are thousands of models that solve a wide variety of problems. Moreover, LLMs have recently emerged as almost general-purpose tools themselves – they can be tweaked or bent to adapt to new domains as long as we can model our task to work on text or text-like data. We are witnessing a defining moment in computing history, where LLMs are going out of research labs and becoming computing tools for everybody.
```

> Using a model such as an LLM in an app involves several tasks, and many people are facing and solving them alone. We have been exploring this space, and we'd love to continue working on it with the community. We aim to create a set of tools and building blocks that developers can use to build faster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using a model such as an LLM in an app involves several tasks which many people face and solve alone. We have been exploring this space and would love to continue working on it with the community. We aim to create a set of tools and building blocks that help developers build faster.
```

> Today, we are publishing this guide to go through the steps required to run a model such as Llama 2 on your Mac, and we are releasing alpha libraries and tools to support developers in the journey. We are calling all Swift developers interested in ML – is that _all_ Swift developers? – to contribute with PRs, bug reports, or opinions to make this better together.

Reviewer 4: I like the sound of this statement <3

> Today, we are publishing this guide to go through the steps required to run a model such as Llama 2 on your Mac, and we are releasing alpha libraries and tools to support developers in the journey. We are calling all Swift developers interested in ML – is that _all_ Swift developers? – to contribute with PRs, bug reports, or opinions to make this better together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, we are publishing this guide to go through the steps required to run a model such as Llama 2 on your Mac. We are also releasing alpha libraries and tools to support developers in the journey. We are calling all Swift developers interested in ML – is that _all_ Swift developers? – to contribute with PRs, bug reports, or opinions to make this better together.
```

> Let's go.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's go!
```

<p align="center">
  <video controls title="Falcon 7B Instruct running on an M1 MacBook Pro with Core ML">
  <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/swift-transformers/llama-2-7b-chat.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  <em>Video: Llama-2-7b-hf-chat model converted to Core ML and running on an M1 MacBook Pro.</em>
</p>

> ## What we are Releasing Today

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Our Release
```

> - [`swift-transformers`](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers), an in-development Swift package to implement a transformers-like API in Swift, focused on text generation. It is an evolution of [`swift-coreml-transformers`](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-coreml-transformers) with broader goals: Hub integration, arbitrary tokenizer support, pluggable models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`swift-transformers`](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers), an in-development Swift package to implement a transformers-like API in Swift focused on text generation. It is an evolution of [`swift-coreml-transformers`](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-coreml-transformers) with broader goals: Hub integration, arbitrary tokenizer support, and pluggable models.
```

> - [`swift-chat`](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-chat), a simple app that demonstrates how to use the package.

Reviewer 2: Should we add a simple README to this project?

Author: Yes, both READMEs are still pending.

- An updated version of [`exporters`](https://github.com/huggingface/exporters), a Core ML conversion package for transformers models.

> - An updated version of [`transformers-to-coreml`](https://huggingface.co/spaces/coreml-projects/transformers-to-coreml), a no-code Core ML conversion tool built on `exporters`, prepared to run with the latest dependencies of `transformers` and `coremltools`.

Reviewer 3: How is this different than exporters, is the last point about that?

Author: I'll remove the dependencies bit.

- Some converted models, ready for use with these text generation tools. See [the Resources section](#resources) for details.

## Tasks Overview

> When I publish tweets showing [Falcon](https://twitter.com/pcuenq/status/1664605575882366980) or [Llama 2](https://twitter.com/pcuenq/status/1681404748904431616) running on my Mac, I get many questions from other developers asking how to convert those models to Core ML, because they want to use them in their apps as well. Conversion is a crucial step, but it's just the first piece of the puzzle. The real reason I write those apps is to face the same problems that any other developer would, and identify areas where we can help. This is an outline of the rest of the post, where we cover some of the tasks involved and explain where (and where not) we have tools to help.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When I published tweets showing [Falcon](https://twitter.com/pcuenq/status/1664605575882366980) or [Llama 2](https://twitter.com/pcuenq/status/1681404748904431616) running on my Mac, I got many questions from other developers asking how to convert those models to Core ML, because they want to use them in their apps as well. Conversion is a crucial step, but it's just the first piece of the puzzle. The real reason I write those apps is to face the same problems that any other developer would and identify areas where we can help. This is an outline of the rest of the post, where we cover some of the tasks involved and explain where (and where not) we have tools to help.
```

> When I publish tweets showing [Falcon](https://twitter.com/pcuenq/status/1664605575882366980) or [Llama 2](https://twitter.com/pcuenq/status/1681404748904431616) running on my Mac, I get many questions from other developers asking how to convert those models to Core ML, because they want to use them in their apps as well. Conversion is a crucial step, but it's just the first piece of the puzzle. The real reason I write those apps is to face the same problems that any other developer would, and identify areas where we can help. This is an outline of the rest of the post, where we cover some of the tasks involved and explain where (and where not) we have tools to help.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When I published the tweets showing [Falcon](https://twitter.com/pcuenq/status/1664605575882366980) or [Llama 2](https://twitter.com/pcuenq/status/1681404748904431616) running on my Mac, I got many questions from other developers asking how to convert those models to Core ML, because they want to use them in their apps as well. Conversion is a crucial step, but it's just the first piece of the puzzle. The real reason I write those apps is to face the same problems that any other developer would and identify areas where we can help. This is an outline of the rest of the post, where we cover some of the tasks involved and explain where (and where not) we have tools to help.
```

> - [Conversion to Core ML](#conversion-to-core-ml). We'll use Llama 2 as a real-life example.

Reviewer 3: Maybe a note that these are what you'll go through in this post before mentioning them

- [Optimization](#optimization) techniques to make your model (and app) run fast and consume as little memory as possible. This is an area that permeates across the project and there's no silver-bullet solution you can apply.
- [`swift-transformers`](#swift-transformers), our new library to help with some common tasks.
    - [Tokenizers](#tokenizers). Tokenization is the way to convert text input to the actual set of numbers that are processed by the model (and back to text from the generated predictions). This is a lot more involved than it sounds, as there are many different options and strategies.

>     - [Model and Hub wrappers](#model-and-hub-wrappers). If we want to support the vast variety of models on the Hub, we can't afford to hardcode model settings. To solve this, we created a simple `LanguageModel` abstraction and various utilities to download model and tokenizer configuration files from the Hub.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - [Model and Hub wrappers](#model-and-hub-wrappers). If we want to support the wide variety of models on the Hub, we can't afford to hardcode model settings. We created a simple `LanguageModel` abstraction and various utilities to download model and tokenizer configuration files from the Hub to solve this.
```

>     - [Generation Algorithms](#generation-algorithms). Language models are trained to predict a probability distribution for the next token that may appear after a sequence of text. To generate text output, we need to call the model multiple times and select a token at each step. There are many ways to decide which token we should choose next.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - [Generation Algorithms](#generation-algorithms). Language models are trained to predict a probability distribution for the next token that may appear after a sequence of text. We need to call the model multiple times to generate text output and select a token at each step. There are many ways to decide which token we should choose next.
```

>     - [Generation Algorithms](#generation-algorithms). Language models are trained to predict a probability distribution for the next token that may appear after a sequence of text. To generate text output, we need to call the model multiple times and select a token at each step. There are many ways to decide which token we should choose next.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - [Generation Algorithms](#generation-algorithms). Language models are trained to predict the next token when given a sequence of text. We need to call the model multiple times to generate text output and select a token at each step. There are many ways to decide which token we should choose next.
```
I oversimplified it for non-ML developers, feel free to ignore

    - [Supported Models](#supported-models). Not all model families are supported (yet).
- [`swift-chat`](#swift-chat). This is a small app that simply shows how to use `swift-transformers` in a project.
- [Missing Parts / Coming Next](#missing-parts--coming-next). Some stuff that's important but not yet available, as directions for future work.
- [Resources](#resources). Links to all the projects and tools.

## Conversion to Core ML

> To see what it looks like to convert a model in real life, we'll take a look at converting the recently-released Llama 2 model. The process can sometimes be convoluted, but we offer a couple of tools to help. They won't always work, as new models are being introduced all the time and we need to do adjustments and modifications.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To see what it looks like to convert a model in real life, we'll look at converting the recently-released Llama 2 model. The process can sometimes be convoluted, but we offer some tools to help. They won't always work, as new models are constantly being introduced, and we need to make adjustments and modifications.
```

> To see what it looks like to convert a model in real life, we'll take a look at converting the recently-released Llama 2 model. The process can sometimes be convoluted, but we offer a couple of tools to help. They won't always work, as new models are being introduced all the time and we need to do adjustments and modifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see what it looks like to convert a model in real life, we'll take a look at converting the recently-released Llama 2 model. The process can sometimes be convoluted, but we offer a couple of tools to help. They won't always work, as new models are being introduced all the time, and we need to make adjustments and modifications.
```

> To see what it looks like to convert a model in real life, we'll take a look at converting the recently-released Llama 2 model. The process can sometimes be convoluted, but we offer a couple of tools to help. They won't always work, as new models are being introduced all the time and we need to do adjustments and modifications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To see what it looks like to convert a model in real life, we'll take a look at converting the recently-released Llama 2 model. The process can sometimes be convoluted, but we offer a couple of tools to help. The tools won't always work, as new models are being introduced all the time, and we need to adjust and modify the tools to keep them updated.
```

Our recommended approach is:

> 1. Use the [`transformers-to-coreml`](https://huggingface.co/spaces/coreml-projects/transformers-to-coreml) conversion space:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the [`transformers-to-coreml`](https://huggingface.co/spaces/coreml-projects/transformers-to-coreml) conversion Space:
```

> This is an automated tool built on top of `exporters` (see below) that either works for your model, or doesn't. It requires no coding at all: you enter the Hub model identifier, select the task you're planning to use the model for, and click apply. If conversion succeeds, you can push the converted Core ML weights to the Hub, and you are done!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This automated tool is built on top of `exporters` (see below) that either work for your model or don't. It requires no coding: enter the Hub model identifier, select the task you plan to use it for and click apply. If the conversion succeeds, you can push the converted Core ML weights to the Hub, and you are done!
```

You can [visit the Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/coreml-projects/transformers-to-coreml) or use it directly here:

> <gradio-app theme_mode="light" space="coreml-projects/transformers-to-coreml"></gradio-app>

Reviewer 2: You need to import the js lib for this to work

2. Use [`exporters`](https://github.com/huggingface/exporters), a Python conversion package built on top of Apple's `coremltools` (see below).

> This library gives you a lot more options to configure the conversion task. In addition, it lets you create your own [conversion configuration class](https://github.com/huggingface/exporters#overriding-default-choices-in-the-configuration-object), which you may use for additional control, or to work around conversion issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This library gives you a lot more options to configure the conversion task. In addition, it lets you create your own [conversion configuration class](https://github.com/huggingface/exporters#overriding-default-choices-in-the-configuration-object), which you may use for additional control or to work around conversion issues.
```

3. Use [`coremltools`](https://github.com/apple/coremltools), Apple's conversion package.

This is the lowest-level approach and therefore provides maximum control. It can still fail for some models (especially new ones), but you always have the option to dive inside the source code and try to figure out why.

> The good news about Llama 2 is that we did the legwork and it now works using any of these methods. The bad news is that it _failed to convert_ when it was released, and we had to do some fixing to support it. We take a brief look at what happened in [the appendix](#appendix-converting-llama-2-the-hard-way) so you can get a taste of what to do when things go wrong.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The good news about Llama 2 is that we did the legwork, which now works using any of these methods. The bad news is that it _failed to convert_ when it was released, and we had to do some fixing to support it. We briefly look at what happened in [the appendix](#appendix-converting-llama-2-the-hard-way) so you can get a taste of what to do when things go wrong.
```

### Important lessons learned

> I've followed the conversion process for some recent models (Llama 2, Falcon, StarCoder), and I've applied what I learned to both `exporters` and the `transformers-to-coreml` space. This is a summary of some takeaways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I've followed the conversion process for some recent models (Llama 2, Falcon, StarCoder), and I've applied what I learned to both `exporters` and the `transformers-to-coreml` Space. This is a summary of some takeaways:
```

- If you have to use `coremltools`, use the latest version: `7.0b1`. Despite technically being a beta, I've been using it for weeks and it's really good: stable, includes a lot of fixes, supports PyTorch 2, and has new features like advanced quantization tools.
- `exporters` no longer applies a softmax to outputs when converting text generation tasks. We realized this was necessary for some generation algorithms.

> - `exporters` now defaults to using fixed sequence lengths for text models. Core ML has a way to specify "flexible shapes", such that your input sequence may have any length between 1 and, say, 4096 tokens. We discovered that flexible inputs only run on CPU, but not on GPU or the Neural Engine. More investigation coming soon!

Reviewer 2: Do readers know what is a Neural Engine?

Author: Explained in the intro to core ml sentence.

> - `exporters` now defaults to using fixed sequence lengths for text models. Core ML has a way to specify "flexible shapes", such that your input sequence may have any length between 1 and, say, 4096 tokens. We discovered that flexible inputs only run on CPU, but not on GPU or the Neural Engine. More investigation coming soon!

Reviewer 4: Oh damn! This is useful info.

We'll keep adding best practices to our tools so you don't have to discover the same issues again.

## Optimization

> There's no point in converting models if they don't run fast on your target hardware and are respectful with system resources. The models mentioned in this post are pretty big for local use, and we are consciously using them to stretch the limits of what's possible with current technology, and understand where the bottlenecks are.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There's no point in converting models if they don't run fast on your target hardware and are respectful with system resources. The models mentioned in this post are pretty big for local use, and we are consciously using them to stretch the limits of what's possible with current technology and understand where the bottlenecks are.
```

> There's no point in converting models if they don't run fast on your target hardware and are respectful with system resources. The models mentioned in this post are pretty big for local use, and we are consciously using them to stretch the limits of what's possible with current technology, and understand where the bottlenecks are.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There's no point in converting models if they don't run fast on your target hardware and respect system resources. The models mentioned in this post are pretty big for local use, and we are consciously using them to stretch the limits of what's possible with current technology, and understand where the bottlenecks are.
```

> There's no point in converting models if they don't run fast on your target hardware and are respectful with system resources. The models mentioned in this post are pretty big for local use, and we are consciously using them to stretch the limits of what's possible with current technology, and understand where the bottlenecks are.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There's no point in converting models if they don't run fast on your target hardware and are respectful of system resources. The models mentioned in this post are pretty big for local use, and we are consciously using them to stretch the limits of what's possible with current technology and understand where the bottlenecks are.
```

- Quantization techniques. We've already explored them in the context of Stable Diffusion models, and are really excited about the options they'd bring. For example, [6-bit palettization](https://huggingface.co/blog/fast-diffusers-coreml) decreases model size and is efficient with resources. [Mixed-bit quantization](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable-diffusion-xl-coreml), a new technique, can achieve 4-bit quantization (on average) with low impact on model quality. We are planning to work on these topics for language models too!

For production applications, consider iterating with smaller models, especially during development, and then apply optimization techniques to select the smallest model you can afford for your use case.

## `swift-transformers`

> [`swift-transformers`](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers) is an in-progress Swift package that aims to provide a transformers-like API to Swift developers. Let's see what it has, and what's missing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[`swift-transformers`](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers) is an in-progress Swift package that aims to provide a transformers-like API to Swift developers. Let's see what it has and what's missing.
```

### Tokenizers

> Tokenization solves two complementary tasks: adapt text input to the tensor format used by the model, and convert results from the model back to text. There's a lot of nuance involved, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tokenization solves two complementary tasks: adapt text input to the tensor format used by the model and convert results from the model back to text. There's a lot of nuances involved, for example:
```

      {
        "type": "Prepend",
        "prepend": "▁"
      },
      {
        "type": "Replace",
        "pattern": {
          "String": " "
        },
        "content": "▁"
      }
    ]
  },
```

It reads like this: normalization is a sequence of operations applied in order. First, we `Prepend` character `_` to the input string. Then we replace all spaces with `_`. There's a huge list of potential operations, they can be applied to regular expression matches, and they have to be performed in a very specific order. The code in the `tokenizers` library takes care of all these details for all the models in the Hub.

In contrast, projects that use language models in other domains, such as Swift apps, usually resort to hardcoding these decisions as part of the app's source code. This is fine for a couple of models, but then it's difficult to replace a model with a different one, and it's easy to make mistakes.

What we are doing in `swift-transformers` is replicate those abstractions in Swift, so we write them once and everybody can use them in their apps. We are just getting started, so coverage is still small. Feel free to open issues in the repo or contribute your own!

> Specifically, we currently have support for BPE (Byte-Pair Encoding) tokenizers, which is one of the three main families in use today. The GPT family of models, Falcon and Llama all use this method. Support for Unigram and WordPiece tokenizers will come later. We haven't ported all the possible normalizers, pre-tokenizers and post-processors - just the ones we encountered during our conversions of Llama 2, Falcon and GPT models.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Specifically, we currently support BPE (Byte-Pair Encoding) tokenizers, one of the three main families in use today. The GPT models, Falcon and Llama, all use this method. Support for Unigram and WordPiece tokenizers will come later. We haven't ported all the possible normalizers, pre-tokenizers and post-processors - just the ones we encountered during our conversions of Llama 2, Falcon and GPT models.
```

This is how to use the `Tokenizers` module in Swift:

```swift
import Tokenizers

func testTokenizer() async throws {
    let tokenizer = try await AutoTokenizer.from(pretrained: "pcuenq/Llama-2-7b-chat-coreml")
    let inputIds = tokenizer("Today she took a train to the West")
    assert(inputIds == [1, 20628, 1183, 3614, 263, 7945, 304, 278, 3122])
}
```

### Model and Hub wrappers

> As explained above, `transformers` makes heavy use of configuration files stored in the Hub. We prepared a simple `Hub` module to download configuration files from the Hub, which is used to instantiate the tokenizer and retrieve metadata about the model.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As explained above, `transformers` heavily use configuration files stored in the Hub. We prepared a simple `Hub` module to download configuration files from the Hub, which is used to instantiate the tokenizer and retrieve metadata about the model.
```

Regarding models, we created a simple `LanguageModel` type as a wrapper for a Core ML model, focusing on the text generation task. Using protocols, we can query any model with the same API.

> In order to retrieve the appropriate metadata for the model you use, `swift-transformers` relies on a few custom metadata fields that must be added to the Core ML file when converting it. `swift-transformers` will use this information to download all the necessary configuration files from the Hub. These are the fields we use, as presented in Xcode's model preview:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To retrieve the appropriate metadata for the model you use, `swift-transformers` relies on a few custom metadata fields that must be added to the Core ML file when converting it. `swift-transformers` will use this information to download all the necessary configuration files from the Hub. These are the fields we use, as presented in Xcode's model preview:
```

- Greedy decoding. This is the obvious algorithm: select the token with the highest probability, append it to the sequence, and repeat. This will always produce the same result for the same input sequence.
- top-k sampling. Select the `top-k` (where `k` is a parameter) most probable tokens, and then randomly _sample_ from them using parameters such as `temperature`, which will increase variability at the expense of potentially causing the model to go on tangents and lose track of the content.

Additional methods such as "nucleus sampling" will come later. We recommend [this blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/how-to-generate) (updated recently) for an excellent overview of generation methods and how they work. Sophisticated methods such as [assisted generation](https://huggingface.co/blog/assisted-generation) can also be very useful for optimization!

### Supported Models

> So far we've tested `swift-transformers` with a handful of models to validate the main design decisions. We are looking forward trying many more!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
So far, we've tested `swift-transformers` with a handful of models to validate the main design decisions. We are looking forward to trying many more!
```

- Llama 2.
- Falcon.
- StarCoder models, based on a variant of the GPT architecture.
- GPT family, including GPT2, distilgpt, GPTNeoX.

## `swift-chat`

`swift-chat` is a simple demo app built on `swift-transformers`. Its main purpose is to show how to use `swift-transformers` in your code, but it can also be used as a model tester tool.

![Swift Chat UI](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/swift-transformers/swift-chat-ui.png)

> To use it, you download a Core ML model from the Hub or create your own, and select it from the UI. All the relevant model configuration files will be downloaded from the Hub, using the metadata information to identify what model type this is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use it, you download a Core ML model from the Hub or create your own and select it from the UI. All the relevant model configuration files will be downloaded from the Hub, using the metadata information to identify what model type this is.
```

> To use it, you download a Core ML model from the Hub or create your own, and select it from the UI. All the relevant model configuration files will be downloaded from the Hub, using the metadata information to identify what model type this is.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To use it, you download a Core ML model from the Hub, create your own, and select it from the UI. All the relevant model configuration files will be downloaded from the Hub, using the metadata information to identify what model type this is.
```

> To use it, you download a Core ML model from the Hub or create your own, and select it from the UI. All the relevant model configuration files will be downloaded from the Hub, using the metadata information to identify what model type this is.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use it, download a Core ML model from the Hub or create your own, and select it from the UI. All the relevant model configuration files will be downloaded from the Hub, using the metadata information to identify what model type this is.
```

> The first time you load a new model it will take some time to prepare it. In this phase, the CoreML framework will compile the model and decide what compute devices to run it on, based on your machine specs and the model's structure. This information is cached and reused in future runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first time you load a new model, it will take some time to prepare it. In this phase, the CoreML framework will compile the model and decide what compute devices to run it on based on your machine specs and the model's structure. This information is cached and reused in future runs.
```

> The app is intentionally simple to keep it small and show how to integrate `swift-transformers`. It also lacks a few features, mostly because of the current limitations in model context size. For example, it does not have any provision for "system prompts", which are [essential to specify the behaviour of your language model](https://huggingface.co/blog/llama2#how-to-prompt-llama-2) and even its personality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The app is intentionally simple to keep it small and show how to integrate `swift-transformers`. It also lacks a few features, mostly because of the current limitations in model context size. For example, it does not have any provision for "system prompts", which are [useful for specifying the behaviour of your language model](https://huggingface.co/blog/llama2#how-to-prompt-llama-2) and even its personality.
```

## Missing Parts / Coming Next

As stated, we are just getting started! Our upcoming priorities include:

> - Encoder-decoder models such as T5, Flan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Encoder-decoder models such as T5 and Flan.
```

- More tokenizers: support for Unigram and WordPiece.
- Additional generation algorithms.
- Support key-value caching for optimization.
- Use discrete sequence shapes for conversion. Together with key-value caching this will allow for larger contexts.

Let us know what you think we should work on next! 

## Conclusion

> We introduced a set of tools to help Swift developers incorporate language models in their apps. I can't wait to see what you create with them, and am looking forward to improving them with the community help! Don't hesitate to get in touch :)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We introduced a set of tools to help Swift developers incorporate language models in their apps. I can't wait to see what you create with them, and I look forward to improving them with the community's help! Don't hesitate to get in touch :)
```

### _Appendix: Converting Llama 2 the Hard Way_

> [This is a bit long, but people are interested. We could move it to a "Supplementary Material" appendix, or create another blog post later]

Reviewer 2: To remove
